The common name of cigarette beetle may be misleading, as this species has a wide range of food resources. In fact, cigarette beetles have the most varied diet of storage insects, second only to T. castaneum.[14]

Lasioderma serricorne primarily feed off stored commodities such as spices, seeds, rice, cereal, and most notably dried tobacco leaves. The fecundity, developmental time, egg-to-adult survival rate, and adult body weight of the L. serricorne is heavily influenced by their food source. The food source that results in the highest fecundity is wheat flour, while the lowest fecundity is found when tobacco leaves are the primary food source. Additionally, larvae reared in wheat flour display the highest survival rates into adulthood. When infesting spices, cayenne pepper and paprika are the most favorable food sources to produce the highest body weights and longest life spans in L. serricorne.[10]

Interestingly, L. serricorne is one of the only species known to inhabit and feed upon dry tobacco and its products. This is due to the fact that tobacco is nutritionally deficient and a prominent chemical in tobacco, nicotine, can cause nicotine toxicity in insects. Nicotine is an incredibly toxic substance to soft bodied insects and is one of the most effective botanical pesticides. It was previously thought that cigarette beetles were able to process nicotine into a less harmful chemical, cotinine.[15] However, current research suggests that nicotine can pass unmetabolized through cigarette beetles without causing significant damage. Specifically, over 91% of digested nicotine can be recovered in the beetle's waste, or frass. It has been suggested that the microbes in L. serricorne's gut have contributed to their ability to pass nicotine unmetabolized and harmlessly though their digestive systems.[15]

While cured tobacco is the cigarette beetle's most abundant food source, they display preference amongst types of cured tobacco. It was found that cigarette beetles most prefer flue-cured type, and least preferred is Burley. It can be concluded that generally cigarette beetles have a preference for tobacco types with the highest sugar content and lowest nicotine percentage.